Timescale for mass transfer:
Should be the same as fluid because particle convection is dominant.
Check if dominant:

Check BC of particle

01: contact line not pinning, start from 90 degrees.
diverge, error1&error2 show NaN

02: check if error1&error2 calculated right with error1p, error2p.
still NaN

03: check which residual error gives NaN. use simple mesh.
si & cp on the free surface.? check sf&sj on free surface(KBC & accumulation)
jacobian rows of variable si&cp on the free surface also NaN
these all happened at the second step, which means the first step solves to strange values which exist only in the surface conditions.

check surface integrals within sf: NaN comes from flux. add a proof for flux: if r>1, report the error.

NaN can be checked by setting debug_NAN=.true.
change the code to write NaN information in a file "NaN_check", where to pause (in newton_raphson)

dynamics.dat from stepwise graph shows that the drop base extend while the height decrease. not know why this happened, because I predicted the drop to shrink with no base movement.

set u=v=0 to see results: NaN in solution. Jac does not have 0 or NaN rows, but solution goes to NaN. do not understand...

change back to no-simple-mesh, only use one thread, strange. change check_0_in_Jac back to 0, solves it.

real mesh, u=v=0: sol error NaN, Rsi NaN.
no u=v=0: fist step ok, then r>1.
realize that all these problems come from the divergent flux condition. set flux to be 1 always. solved it.

no u=v=0, flux=1: drop shape not well mantained. solution oafter first step: rmax=~1.8, mesh overlap

back to all normal conditions, fix contact line, only set cp not to change: converge well.

cancel fixed cp: converge well. so the problem before intern was only with mass conservation. killed.

04 not pinned contact line: diverge. if set cp=0, still diverge. if T=cp=0: still diverge. u=v=0: diverge

05 very large diffusion: Pep=0.00001. killed

06 Pep=0.01, initial theta=50. finished. 

07 with T change. did not change back to divergent flux(04,05,06,07). particle concentration behave well. killed.

08 divergent flux: particle concentration still behave well. killed.

09 with substrate: behave well. dt always the smallest. change to a large smallest dt(10t)(5e-6). finished.

10 large dtmin=1e-5: answer same as 09. killed

11 dtmin=1e-4: stopped somehow

12 restart 11, stopped at timestep12, because more than 11 steps are needed to converge, but still quadratic converge, so it is fine. need to change the maximum steps allowed if using dtmin=1e-4.

13 check if dcp influence dt. 13_1 solve with cp, 13_2 set cp not to change with BC.
(do not include dcp when calculating truncate error, so that dt is predicted the same as before.)

found that the element number is not the same as before(when cp is not added).

14 change the element numbers to the same as before.
found that the angle_c_degree is negative for the first mesh change. so added a line in var_cal for angle calculation: for the first time mesh is adjusted, do not calculate angle_c. fixed the bug.

notice that even without solving cp, trunerr still not the same. too large for the new code. use git diff, found that trunerr calculation method changed. change back. now dt is the same.

solved dt-too-small problem.   upload to git!

15 no Maran. see if cp is different.

16: try to figure out the mass conservation failure. particle mass exceeds volume*cpmax, so cpintfac is wrong. figured out and fixed the problem: rintfac, cpintfac, etc need to be set 0 within (k,l) loop. this is why cp mass not conserved, and also why drop volume was 26 instead of less than 1. fixed.



It seems that the Marangoni flow does not have much influence on particel concentration. is Ma very small near the end? If so, concentration is capillary affected.
17: increase beta to see under what condition does Marangoni flow affect particle concentration. in "parameter", insert "beta0=1000*beta0"
this lead to sharp jump in the first timestep, may need to damp soln in the first timestep.may need to increase beta little by little.??? not finished. worry about later.

found that the Pep was set to be very small because of previous debugging process. That is why no difference shows: particle diffuse uniformly instead of affected by flow profile/convection.

results with maximum packing, but wrong BC for packing

pack_condition=NaN was cause by 2^1111, too large

18: dtmin=1e-6, no Marangoni. killed.

19: dtmin=5e-5, no Marangoni. ran 13h.
20: no include cp when calculating trunerr, no Marangoni
21: Marangoni

results with no packing
22: no Marangoni. (not converge at timestep2)resolved: due to BC change but split_sol didn't change.
Dp=Dp*10, 1um particles.(results in timestep1 presents large cp at the top of the drop, which is wrong, should be the contact line area.)
mainly accumulate at the contact line.accumulcate alittle at the top, and this affect is more obvious in the very initial stage, and much less later because corner accumulcation is too dominant.


23: 100nm particles, no Marangoni. accumulation at the top is too much, always dominant. cp values at the surface and the contact line is ridiculously large

24: Marangoni, 100nm. lost stability, cp chaos.
[idea]: make temperature and streamlines stable first, set up the stable circulation first; then add partile. this may avoid the chaos due to multicirculation at the initial instable stage.worked!
25: Marangoni with 1um particles. behaved well except it stopped due to full max packing
25_1: no packing stop condition. stopped due to "bus error core dumped", not sure what it is, but may be related to being run with elastic. rerun with thunder.???

26: from 90 degree. stopped due to the "cp no change anymore" condition. behaved well before that.
26_1: run with no cp stop condition. goes to wrong solutions. cp can not be lower than -1. so need to decrease dt by incorporating cp in trun_err.???

27: use [idea]. stopped due to "cp no change anymore". need to rerun
found that fixed cp BC was not correctly set up before: need to judge if the element is in drop phase first, or Ncp points to other variables maybe for other nodes.

27_1: 100nm particles. numerical instability happened soon. consider putting cp into trun_err.

28: include stagnation location. 1um particle, Marangoni. draw surface cp. numerical instability happened early. graph every step to see?
29: 100nm, include cp trun_err. instability angle=49.771, this is around the time when dt reaches 1e-6.
30: 1um, start from 90. instable from the very first timestep for cp.

31: no substrate. need to comment out size_change_3. not using the initial cp fixed BC. instable right from the start.

32: no substrate 50 degrees. initial mesh change back to size_3. cp<-1 from the very start.

33: dimensionless cp change back to cp/cp0 instead of (cp-cp0)/cp0. cp<0 from the very start.

34: cp l2error, not divided by max value. did not converge. timestep=1, cp goes more and more negative by step. may need smaller initial dt.

35: smaller initial dt 1e-6. still unstable.

cp change after flow stable, but changed the stability criteria. initial dt back to 1e-5. graph everystep to see, graph_mode change to 1 after stability is setup.   graph subroutine is wrong, when graph_mode change to 1, not restart writing dynamics.dat

36 change graph subroutine to solve the above problem. graph subroutine is good now.
but, dt when cp starts to be solved is too largem may be the reason to cause instabality. set back to 1e-6 when starting to solve cp.

37: dt is set back to 1e-6 when starting to solve cp, and treat as just start calculating in prediction subroutine. not converge

38: dt=1e-7. need smaller dt

39: dt=1e-8. need smaller dt

40: dt=1e-9, graph_mode always 0. dt is still too big

------------------used wrong Pe: too large, it is for 100um particles---------


41: dt=1e-5, start cp right away(init_stability=1), Dp=1nm. behave well. killed
41_1: not include cp in trunerr. still need to analyze the resultsbehave well. maybe compare with 41_2 on the surface cp to see how much difference are there.????????????????????????????????????????

41_2: continue 41. behaved well till 5.236, dt not always small, as large as 1e-4 when angle (16,47).

42: Dp=10nm. may be unstable, cp lower than 0.99 emerged at angle=49.921. killed

43: Dp=100nm. unstable because dtmin is still too big for 100nm particles. killed.

44: no Marangoni, trunerr not include cp, 100nm particle. behaved well except cp at the surface and the contact line is too high, not physical.

45: no Marangoni, trunerr include cp, 1nm.?1

46: Marangoni, 100nm, trunerr include cp, start cp after profile stable.? start cp with FTS of 1e-5 is too large, diverge. next, try a smaller FTS.

46_2: FTS 1e-7. still diverge.

---------------------------use no substrate to get quicker results-------------

47: Marangoni, 1nm, add substrate, trunerr include cp, start cp after profile stable. did not converge once cp was solved.

48: Marangoni with substrate, 1nm, start cp right away.



if these works, add the substrate.



maximum packing condition: the particle mass was not conserved.need to change BC for maximum packing boundary.not done???









figure out a method to observe the difference between plug flow and Marangoni flow results. Difficulties:
1. hard to find a same contact angle. therefore, a fixed dt is necessary. figure out appropriate fixed dt: observe the dt used in adaptive timestep method. find an average value for each simulation. make capillary simulation several times of Marangoni simulation.???
2. a value to quantatively compare particle distribution. surface concentration, S-L interface concentration, radial mass (how to calculate?) 





If Re very small, no need to incorporate inertia.
include Ma in the parameter value. Gives the idea of real Re, which is origianl Re*Ma.

